in this video we're going to learn how to insert
a node at the end of a linked list
So this is the code to implement the programme here
The function add last will insert the node at the
end of the linked list
Here we have a linked list which is now empty
so head is equal to null here
Suppose we need to insert the element 10 to the
linked list and the value to be inserted here which
is 10 is passed to the function and it stored
in Val
So first we need to create a new node and
fill the data and reference part
So first create the new node
So write node new node equal to new node
So the new node is created
Now in data part we are storing the past value
val and in the linked part or next part we're
storing null
So write new node dot data equal to Val and
new node dot next equal to null now the new
node is created and is holding the value 10th
Now the next step is to find where to insert
this node for that first we want to check if
the head is null
If head is null that means the linked list is
now empty And the new node we are going to
insert is the first node
So new node should become the head of the linked
list
So write if head equal to null then head equal
to new node here head is null so made new node
the head if head is not null
That means the linked list is not empty and there
are nodes already present in it
So considered this case Let us insert another element 20
So the function add last is called with value 20
So a new node is created for 20 with data
part 20 and next part Null when we check if
head is null it is not so we go to the
else part
Our aim here is to insert the node at the
end of the linked list
So here we want to find the last node so
that we can insert new node after that
As we know the last node will have null value
at the next part so we can start checking from
the head node till we reach the node with next
equal to null so to Travers
We need a temporary node
So declare last node and initialised to head
So write node last node equal to head
Now use while loop while last node dot next
not equal to null and moved to next node in
each iteration So inside write last node equal to last
node dot next
So when is loop terminates We will have last node pointed
by last node So just insert our new node after
this last node
So write last node dot next equal to new node
So here head itself is having null value at the
next part
And hence it is the last node
So the while loop condition fails in first checking itself
And by executing this statement the next part of the
last node will now point to the new node which
is 20 and now 20 has become the end of
the linked list
Now let us insert another element 30 So a new
node is created for 30 and now we want to
find word to inserted
So we are checking if head is null
But it is not so
We go to the else part and we want to
find the last node of the linked list
And the last node will have null value at the
next part
And we have this
while loop here to find the last node First last
node is initialised to head
Now we check the while condition and here head is
not having null at the linked Pat
So the condition is true
So we move further to write
So last node now points to 20 now check the
while condition again and we have last node dot next
equal to null
So while condition will fail here and the control comes
out of the while loop So now the next step is
to insert this new node after the last node
So make last node dot next equal to new node
And finally this node 30 has become the end of
the linked list .